# Impact of AI within the Finance Industry and Job Market
In this assignment, I discuss two slightly difference outlooks on the impact of AI within the United States. Specifically, these articles use the contexts of the Financial Industry and overall job markets to deliver their points. As generative AI, a technology heavily reliant on data, is an extremely relevant topic at the moment, I thought it was pertinent to discuss security concerns as well as potential impacts within the economy in general.

## Article 1
In USNews's article [How AI Could Spark the Next Financial Crisis](https://money.usnews.com/investing/articles/how-ai-could-spark-next-financial-crisis-gensler), it highlights concerns about the negative impacts and risks associated with the increasing use of artificial intelligence. It specifically discusses Securities and Exchange Commission Chair Gary Gensler's worries regarding the potential for AI to trigger a financial crisis. The identified risks include the possible end of encryption, the threat of fake news and deep fakes influencing financial markets, mass phishing attempts utilizing AI-generated content, and the potential for disastrous AI-driven trading systems given an internal error or hacking attempt. While acknowledging successful implementations of AI in finance, the article emphasizes the need for regulatory guidelines, risk management frameworks, and stress-testing procedures to mitigate these concerns and assess the systemic impact of AI technologies in the financial sector.

I believe that this article highlights crucial points of concern regarding the widespread adoption of AI. At the moment, I think the novelty of the technology has not worn off yet and companies are scrambling to be able to offer “AI Enhanced” features without thinking about the logistics of the situation. A key problem Gensler brings up is the importance of having meticulous safety protocols built within the technology to account for both deliberate attempts to influence the models or catastrophic internal errors. I believe that this is key to a safe and efficient rollout. In terms of data concerns, these models rely on tons of data to produce high quality outputs. If some entities were to be able to easily access the data lakes these models are trained on, they could induce false results resulting in devastating losses not just in the financial industry but throughout the country.

## Article 2
American Banker's piece ['More impactful than the internet': How AI will reshape banking jobs](https://www.americanbanker.com/news/more-impactful-than-the-internet-how-ai-will-reshape-banking-jobs) delves into the impact of artificial intelligence on jobs in the banking sector, presenting a generally optimistic outlook. Various industry leaders, like Zor Gorelov, view AI as a tool that enhances efficiency, comparing its effect to the introduction of automated teller machines. A survey reflects that financial stakeholders are of the belief that AI will transform jobs rather than replace them. Notably, David Becker, CEO of First Internet Bank, highlights the potential for AI to empower employees in analytical roles, while also acknowledging the need for upskilling. Despite the positive stance, concerns raised by figures like Sam Altman of OpenAI add a cautionary note, emphasizing the possibility of job losses. Altman contends that AI's impact is not universally beneficial, suggesting that certain jobs may indeed be eliminated in the process.

This article has a much more optimistic tone regarding AI. I agree with most of the viewpoints within this article, as I do believe that AI is not this omnipotent power that is being toted within the media. It is merely a computer model running on tons of mathematics after being fed a lot of data. As such, it allows us to efficiently outsource the menial tasks to computers which we have already done so in many other ways. This, in fact, enhances jobs and makes humans even more crucial to the operations of businesses. As such by raising the skill ceiling of a job, we are merely altering jobs but not necessarily replacing them. However, I believe that Sam Altman has the most sober prediction of the impact of AI within the job market. If we theoretically apply the principles of Moore’s Law to this situation, it is inevitable that certain low skilled jobs may be replaced by AI. For some, such as those who are too old to retrain or too specialized in their field, this may pose a problem. Yet, this begs a different approach to the dilemma. Rather, it tasks businesses with finding new ways to leverage their workforce without being bogged down by simple yet time consuming tasks. 


